PUERTO RICO AI EVOLVER
by Derek Stotz

-- Installation --

1. Install Anaconda 2.5.0
2. Install Python 3.4.5
3. Install Numpy 1.11.0
5. Install PyBrain 0.3.3

-- Parameters --

All learning parameters are defined as constants (variables in all caps) at the top of the learner file in each directory.
 In each evolutionary algorithm directory, this files is "ga.py".
 In the reinforcement learning directory, this file is "policy_search.py".

-- Learning --

1. Open Anaconda Prompt to the directory containing the desired implementationn's .py files.
2. Run the learner file with the "python" command in the prompt.
    In each evolutionary algorithm directory, this file is "ga.py".
    In the reinforcement learning directory, this file is "policy_search.py".

-- Playing --

1. Open Anaconda Prompt to the directory containing the desired implementationn's .py files.
2. Enter "python main.py" in the prompt.
3. Follow the directions in the output.

-- Output --

AI files generated by runs of the evolutionary learner are called "autoai", and labelled by trial number (with the exception of the prototypical ga_ann, which prompts for a filename).
Weight sets generated by runs of the reinforcement learner are called "file", and labelled by an index number corresponding to the epsilon's location in the EPSILONS list.
All data files containing the best score at each generation (evolutionary learner) or the score of each game played (reinforcement learner) are named "performanceovertime", and labelled by trial number.


The Store is set up in the following manner:

#  [size, cost, workers, name], amount available, number of quarries which can be used to buy

  BID.small_indigo_plant : [Building(1, 1, 1, "Small Indigo Plant"), 4, 1] \#1
  BID.small_market : [Building(1, 1, 1, "Small Market"), 2, 1] \ #+1 doubloon with sale
  BID.small_sugar_mill : [Building(1, 2, 1, "Small Sugar Mill"), 4, 1] \ #1
  BID.hacienda : [Building(1, 2, 1, "Hacienda"), 2, 1] \ #+1 plantation from supply (settler phase)
  BID.construction_hut : [Building(1, 2, 1, "Construction Hut"), 2, 1] \ #quarry instead of plantation (settler phase)
  BID.small_warehouse : [Building(1, 3, 1, "Small Warehouse"), 2, 1] \ #store 1 kind of goods (captain phase)
  BID.indigo_plant : [Building(1, 3, 3, "Indigo Plant"), 3, 2] \ #3
  BID.sugar_mill : [Building(1, 4, 3, "Sugar Mill"), 3, 2] \ #3
  BID.hospice : [Building(1, 4, 1, "Hospice"), 2, 2] \ #+1 colonist for settling (settler phase)
  BID.office : [Building(1, 5, 1, "Office"), 2, 2] \ # sell same kind of goods (trader phase)
  BID.large_market : [Building(1, 5, 1, "Large Market"), 2, 2] \ #+2 doubloons with sale (trader phase)
  BID.large_warehouse : [Building(1, 6, 1, "Large Warehouse"), 2, 2] \ # store 2 kinds of goods (captain phase)
  BID.tobacco_storage : [Building(1, 5, 3, "Tobacco Storage"), 3, 3] \ #3
  BID.coffee_roaster : [Building(1, 6, 2, "Coffee Roaster"), 3, 3] \ #2
  BID.factory : [Building(1, 7, 1, "Factory"), 2, 3] \ #+0/1/2/3/5 doubloons with production (crafstman phase)
  BID.university : [Building(1, 8, 1, "University"), 2, 3] \ #+1 colonist for building (builder phase)
  BID.harbor : [Building(1, 8, 1, "Harbor"), 2, 3] \ #+1 victory point per delivery (captain phase)
  BID.wharf : [Building(1, 9, 1, "Wharf"), 2, 3] \ # your own ship (captain phase)
  BID.guild_hall : [Building(2, 10, 1, "Guild Hall"), 1, 4] \ # 2 victory points for each large production building.  1 victory point for each small production building (game end)
  BID.residence : [Building(2, 10, 1, "Residence"), 1, 4] \ #4 VP for <9 , 5 VP for 10, 6 VP for 11, 7 VP for 12 occupied island space (game end)
  BID.fortress : [Building(2, 10, 1, "Fortress"), 1, 4] \ # 1 VP for every 3 colonists
  BID.customs_house : [Building(2, 10, 1, "Customs House"), 1, 4] \ # 1 victory point for every 4 victory point chips
  BID.city_hall : [Building(2, 10, 1, "City Hall"), 1, 4] \ # 1 victory point for each violet building
  
This code can be found in game.py, but I have left it here for reference.